Experimentation docs (#2798)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/user-guides/experimentation.mdx

---
title: Experimentation
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

<FeatureAvailability availablePlans={['standard', 'enterpriseCloud', 'startup', 'scale', 'enterprise']} />

> Experimentation helps you test product changes to your app and find the optimal changes. You can test hypotheses about which product changes will lead to optimal results. You may have heard it called A/B testing before. Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiments helps you test product changes to your app. You can test hypotheses about which product changes will lead to optimal results. You may have heard it called A/B testing before. Examples:
```

-   You want to test which copy or visual design has the highest conversion.
-   You want to test which flow leads to the highest number of purchases.

> -   Another use case here?

Reviewer: You want to test if certain deals & promotions do better with users in a specific country.

You want to test if showing your website copy in German does better than English in Austria.

> -   Another use case here?

Author: ```suggestion
- You want to test if certain deals & promotions do better with users in a specific country.
- You want to test if showing your website copy in German does better than English in Austria.
```

> 🚧 **Experimentation is currently in beta** and support is limited to our [JavaScript](/docs/integrate/client/js#feature-flags) integration. If you have any feedback, please <a href="https://posthog.com/support" target="_blank">reach out</a>.

## How does it work?

With Experimentation, you start with a hypothesis on how to improve your product (e.g. changing the flow, changing copy, changing visual styles, ...) and a goal (e.g. improve conversion, improve sign ups, ...). Once you have those you can:

> 1. Create an Experiment which will have a control group and any number of experimentation variants (at least one).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an Experiment which will have a control group and some test variants (at least one, at most three).
```

2. Select which users will participate in the Experiment (e.g. paid users, users in a given country, or all users).

> Based on your user selection and your goal, we will estimate the number of users exposed and the number of days required for your Experiment to reach significant results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on your user selection and your goal, we will estimate the number of users exposed and the number of days required for your Experiment to reach significant results.

We distribute all selected users equally between the control and test groups. So, for example, if there are 3 test variants and 1 control variant, each variant gets 25% of the total users selected.
```

The actual experiment and what your user sees is controlled in your own code (see below on [Creating an experiment](#creating-an-experiment)). You ask PostHog which group does this user belong to and then you show any relevant changes in your app or website. Because this is done in your code you can test any number of things, from changing copy in a button, to taking the user to a different page, or showing them a completely different experience.

Once your experiment is running, we'll automatically track your main conversion and let you know which variant leads to the best results. While the experiment is running, we'll also tell you the probability that any given variant is the winning variant.

To ensure your experiment does not introduce any regressions, you can also track secondary metrics. This is particularly useful if you're optimizing a metric that has a natural trade-off with another metric (e.g. you can maximize conversion by reducing your price but then your total revenue may be reduced).

Once your experiment is terminated, you can easily archive and share your results with other team members.

### Results significance

> In order for your results and conclusions to be valid, any experiment must have a significant exposure. For instance, if you test a product change and only one user sees the change, you can't extrapolate from that single user that the change will be beneficial/detrimental for your entire user base. This is true for any experiment that uses the scientific method (e.g. this is also done when testing new drugs or vaccines).

Reviewer: Think it's wrong to use "scientific method" here: its much broader.

```suggestion
For your results and conclusions to be valid, any experiment must have a significant exposure. For instance, if you test a product change and only one user sees the change, you can't extrapolate from that single user that the change will be beneficial/detrimental for your entire user base. This is true for any experiment that is a simple randomized controlled experiment (e.g. this is also done when testing new drugs or vaccines).

Furthermore, even if there's a lot of exposure, if, say, all variants are exposed to 10,000 participants, if the difference in conversion rate between the variants is less than 1%, it's hard to say whether one variant is truly better than the other. To be significant, there must be enough difference between the conversion rates.
```

### Experimentation vs. Feature Flags

Experimentation and Feature Flags are different features because they serve different purposes. **Experimentation** is used to test changes to your product where you want to maximize a specific metric (eg. testing a new flow to maximize conversion rate). **Feature Flags** are used for phased roll-outs (e.g. a new experimental feature you want to make sure works correctly) or as a way to control feature access. Read our [Feature Flags user guide](/docs/user-guides/feature-flags) for more information on this.

Experimentation uses Feature Flags under the hood to handle user allocation to an experiment. You'll notice this when checking if a user is assigned to an experiment.

## Using Experimentation

### Creating an experiment

Guide on how to create an experiment [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DJmSY6ILZFmHhmRLTQ0L2oXGgFZCvGM4DF-zh92DIE8/edit?usp=sharing).

### Running an experiment

> TODO: Guide on how to run an experiment here.

Reviewer: What all should go here?

Implementation gotchas, like using `onFeatureFlags` ?

Short note on the Peeking problem?

Author: Yes to both. We should also explain the process of creating the flag, updating your code and then launching the experiment.

Reviewer: And testing I guess: there's the override methods, but also the toolbar (which is epic, I've never used the code override because the toolbar is so smoooth xD )

### Terminating an experiment

You decide when to terminate an experiment. A banner in your experiment results page will let you know if it's safe to terminate an experiment or not (regardless of the original estimated running time). If you terminate the experiment before you see this banner, results will not be significant (see Advanced for more details on this) and any conclusions could be completely wrong.

Once you have decided to terminate an experiment there are a few things to do:

-   [ ] Click on "Terminate the experiment" on the experiment page. This will ensure final results are kept.

> -   [ ] We recommend you roll-out the winning variant to all your users. TODO: Explain here how to do this with PostHog.

Reviewer: I liked @clarkus idea of putting a button on the experiment finished page to "rollout to everyone". Alternatively, could link to the FF page to adjust yourself.

Reviewer 2: Example of this in figma at https://www.figma.com/file/gQBj9YnNgD8YW4nBwCVLZf/PostHog-App?node-id=6679%3A32112

-   [ ] Document conclusions and findings in your PostHog experiment. This will help preserve context for team members who in the future need to understand what happened.
-   [ ] Archive the experiment. This will terminate the Feature Flag and ensure your code no longer depends on the flag.

## Advanced: What's under the hood?

TODO: Advanced math details on how experimentation works, how we compute significance, safe to terminate state, etc.

### How we ensure distribution of people

For every experiment, we leverage PostHog's multivariate feature flags. There's one control group, and up to 3 test groups. Based on their distinctID, each user is randomly distributed into one of these groups. This is stable, so the same users, even when they revisit your page, stay in the same group.

We do this by creating a hash out of the feature flag key and the distinctID. It's worth noting that when you have low data (<1,000 users per variant), the difference in variant exposure can be up to 20%. This means, a test variant could have 800 people only, when control has 1,000.

All our calculations take this exposure into account.

> ### Recommendations for sample size and running time

Reviewer: TODO: Explain inverse relation with MDE, and other variables

Once your experiment is running, we'll automatically track your main conversion and let you know which variant leads to the best results. While the experiment is running, we'll also tell you the probability that any given variant is the winning variant.

To ensure your experiment does not introduce any regressions, you can also track secondary metrics. This is particularly useful if you're optimizing a metric that has a natural trade-off with another metric (e.g. you can maximize conversion by reducing your price but then your total revenue may be reduced).

Once your experiment is terminated, you can easily archive and share your results with other team members.

### Results significance

For your results and conclusions to be valid, any experiment must have a significant exposure. For instance, if you test a product change and only one user sees the change, you can't extrapolate from that single user that the change will be beneficial/detrimental for your entire user base. This is true for any experiment that is a simple randomized controlled experiment (e.g. this is also done when testing new drugs or vaccines).

> Furthermore, even if there's a lot of exposure, if, say, all variants are exposed to 10,000 participants, if the difference in conversion rate between the variants is less than 1%, it's hard to say whether one variant is truly better than the other. To be significant, there must be enough difference between the conversion rates.

Reviewer: rereading, realised I was a bit factually incorrect here, so amending. (Got to be careful of smalll inaccuracies like these, specially in docs!)

```suggestion
Furthermore, even if there's a lot of exposure, if, say, all variants are exposed to 10,000 participants, if the difference in conversion rate between the variants is less than 1%, it's hard to say whether one variant is truly better than the other. To be significant, there must be enough difference between the conversion rates, given the exposure size.
```

---
title: Experimentation
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

<FeatureAvailability availablePlans={['standard', 'enterpriseCloud', 'startup', 'scale', 'enterprise']} />

Experiments helps you test product changes to your app. You can test hypotheses about which product changes will lead to optimal results. You may have heard it called A/B testing before. Examples:

> -   You want to test which copy or visual design has the highest conversion.

Reviewer 3: spacing seems off here?

-   You want to test which flow leads to the highest number of purchases.
- You want to test if certain deals & promotions do better with users in a specific country.
- You want to test if showing your website copy in German does better than English in Austria.

> 🚧 **Experimentation is currently in beta** and support is limited to our [JavaScript](/docs/integrate/client/js#feature-flags) integration. If you have any feedback, please <a href="https://posthog.com/support" target="_blank">reach out</a>.

> ## How does it work?

Reviewer 4: Yeah, happy to also simplify it later too lol, I am voting to get this out so we can just iterate 😁

With Experimentation, you start with a hypothesis on how to improve your product (e.g. changing the flow, changing copy, changing visual styles, ...) and a goal (e.g. improve conversion, improve sign ups, ...). Once you have those you can:

1. Create an Experiment which will have a control group and some test variants (at least one, at most three).

> 2. Select which users will participate in the Experiment (e.g. paid users, users in a given country, or all users).

Reviewer: Good point, it does. Will add this as an example as well.

The actual experiment and what your user sees is controlled in your own code (see below on [Creating an experiment](#creating-an-experiment)). You ask PostHog which group does this user belong to and then you show any relevant changes in your app or website. Because this is done in your code you can test any number of things, from changing copy in a button, to taking the user to a different page, or showing them a completely different experience.

Once your experiment is running, we'll automatically track your main conversion and let you know which variant leads to the best results. While the experiment is running, we'll also tell you the probability that any given variant is the winning variant.

To ensure your experiment does not introduce any regressions, you can also track secondary metrics. This is particularly useful if you're optimizing a metric that has a natural trade-off with another metric (e.g. you can maximize conversion by reducing your price but then your total revenue may be reduced).

Once your experiment is terminated, you can easily archive and share your results with other team members.

> ### Results significance

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### How PostHog chooses the best result
```
Think these headers are always best when they ask or answer direct questions.

For your results and conclusions to be valid, any experiment must have a significant exposure. For instance, if you test a product change and only one user sees the change, you can't extrapolate from that single user that the change will be beneficial/detrimental for your entire user base. This is true for any experiment that is a simple randomized controlled experiment (e.g. this is also done when testing new drugs or vaccines).

Furthermore, even if there's a lot of exposure, if, say, all variants are exposed to 10,000 participants, if the difference in conversion rate between the variants is less than 1%, it's hard to say whether one variant is truly better than the other. To be significant, there must be enough difference between the conversion rates, given the exposure size.

> PostHog computes this significance for you automatically - we will let you know if your experiment has reached significant results or not. Once your experiment reaches significant results, it's safe to use those results to reach a conclusion and terminate the experiment. You can read more about how we do this in our 'Advanced' section below

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PostHog computes this significance for you automatically - we will let you know if your experiment has reached significant results or not. Once your experiment reaches significant results, it's safe to use those results to reach a conclusion and terminate the experiment. You can read more about how we do this in our 'Advanced' section below.
```

Missing full stop.

### Experimentation vs. Feature Flags

Experimentation and Feature Flags are different features because they serve different purposes. **Experimentation** is used to test changes to your product where you want to maximize a specific metric (eg. testing a new flow to maximize conversion rate). **Feature Flags** are used for phased roll-outs (e.g. a new experimental feature you want to make sure works correctly) or as a way to control feature access. Read our [Feature Flags user guide](/docs/user-guides/feature-flags) for more information on this.

Experimentation uses Feature Flags under the hood to handle user allocation to an experiment. You'll notice this when checking if a user is assigned to an experiment.

## Using Experimentation

### Creating an experiment

> Guide on how to create an experiment [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DJmSY6ILZFmHhmRLTQ0L2oXGgFZCvGM4DF-zh92DIE8/edit?usp=sharing).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Find out how to create an experiment [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DJmSY6ILZFmHhmRLTQ0L2oXGgFZCvGM4DF-zh92DIE8/edit?usp=sharing).
```

### Running an experiment

TODO: Guide on how to run an experiment here.

Before you can launch an experiment, you need to implement the code for each feature flag variant. On the draft experiment screen, you'll see a snippet telling you how to query for the variant. It looks something like:

```js
if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('your-chosen-feature-flag-key') === 'control') {
    // where 'control' is the variant, run your code here
}
```

One important gotcha to keep in mind is that feature flag values are loaded asynchronously, so you should use [the onFeatureFlag directive](https://posthog.com/docs/user-guides/feature-flags#onfeatureflags) to check when feature flags are loaded. That is, call the snippet above inside the `onFeatureFlag` callback.

Once you've written your code, it's a good idea to test that each variant behaves as you'd expect. If you find out your implementation had a bug after you've launched the experiment, you lose days of effort as the experiment results can no longer be trusted.

> 

Reviewer 3: Spacing seems odd here.

There's two easy ways to test your changes:

1. Use the PostHog Toolbar

Once you've pushed your experiment code, you can open the PostHog toolbar, click on the feature flags option, and override the feature flag to whichever variant you want, and see that the changes reflect on your screen.

2. Use the web developer console

The experiment draft screen also has a snippet for testing your code. Once you've pushed your experiment code, open the console on your browser, and paste the snippet in. This will override the feature flag for you, and you should be able to see the changes you've made on screen.

Once you're satisfied, you're ready to launch your experiment.

> **Note:** The Feature Flag is activated only when you launch the experiment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** The feature flag is activated only when you launch the experiment.
```

> While the experiment is running, you can see results on the page. Sometimes, in the beginning of an experiment, results can be skewed to one side. For example, you launched at midnight, so people on the other side of the world are active first, and the first few hours of data you collect is all from them. This can artificially skew results to one variant. While possible, it's important that you don't end your experiments at this stage: the results are probably insignificant. This is known as the peeking problem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the experiment is running, you can see results on the page. Sometimes, in the beginning of an experiment, results can be skewed to one side. For example, if you launched at midnight then people on the other side of the world are active first, and the first few hours of data you collect is all from them. This can artificially skew results to one variant. While possible, it's important that you don't end your experiments at this stage: the results are probably insignificant. This is known as the peeking problem.
```

> While peeking at the results in itself is not a problem, making quick decisions based on preliminary results is problematic. Thus, we tell you when it's safe to end an experiment. When it's not safe, there's a red banner on top telling you it's not safe to end this experiment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While peeking at the results in itself is not a problem, making quick decisions based on preliminary results is problematic. For this reason, we display a banner that informs you if it is 'safe' to end an experiment. 
```

Note that this recommendation doesn't cover all edge cases. It is still possible, when new data comes in, that results flip completely. This is true for any experiments and any significance test in existence today. But, the probability of this happening is very low, which is why most people are comfortable taking this risk. For a 0 risk experiment, you'd have to run it for an infinite amount of time: every new person is new data to be accomodated.

### Terminating an experiment

> You decide when to terminate an experiment. A banner in your experiment results page will let you know if it's safe to terminate an experiment or not (regardless of the original estimated running time). If you terminate the experiment before you see this banner, results will not be significant (see Advanced for more details on this) and any conclusions could be completely wrong.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You decide when to terminate an experiment and a banner in your results page will let you know if it's safe to do so, regardless of the original estimated running time. If you terminate the experiment before you see this banner, results will not be significant (see Advanced for more details on this) and any conclusions could be completely wrong.
```

Once you have decided to terminate an experiment there are a few things to do:

-   [ ] Click on "Terminate the experiment" on the experiment page. This will ensure final results are kept.
-   [ ] We recommend you roll-out the winning variant to all your users. TODO: Explain here how to do this with PostHog.
-   [ ] Share results with relevant members of your team.

> -   [ ] After the winning variant is rolled-out, it's good practice to remove the other variants from your code, and make the winning variant part of your core code (i.e. stop checking for the respective Feature Flag).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   [ ] After the winning variant is rolled-out, it's good practice to remove the other variants from your code, and make the winning variant part of your core code (i.e. stop checking for the respective feature flag).
```

-   [ ] Document conclusions and findings in your PostHog experiment. This will help preserve context for team members who in the future need to understand what happened.

> -   [ ] Archive the experiment. This will terminate the Feature Flag and ensure your code no longer depends on the flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Archive the experiment. This will terminate the feature flag and ensure your code no longer depends on the flag.
```

## Advanced: What's under the hood?

Below are all formulas and calculations we go through when recommending sample sizes and determining significance.

### How we ensure distribution of people

> For every experiment, we leverage PostHog's multivariate feature flags. There's one control group, and up to 3 test groups. Based on their distinctID, each user is randomly distributed into one of these groups. This is stable, so the same users, even when they revisit your page, stay in the same group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For every experiment, we leverage PostHog's multivariate feature flags. There's one control group, and up to three test groups. Based on their distinctID, each user is randomly distributed into one of these groups. This is stable, so the same users, even when they revisit your page, stay in the same group.
```

Keep numbering consistent.

> For every experiment, we leverage PostHog's multivariate feature flags. There's one control group, and up to 3 test groups. Based on their distinctID, each user is randomly distributed into one of these groups. This is stable, so the same users, even when they revisit your page, stay in the same group.

Reviewer 3: How would this work with groups/orgs?

Reviewer: good question, it doesn't yet (but it ought to)

```
sample size per variant = 16 * conversion_rate * (1 - conversion_rate) / (mde)^2
```

where `mde` is again the minimum detectable effect chosen in the UI.

We give these values as an estimate for how long to run the experiment. It's possible to end experiments before you reach the end, if you see an outsized effect.

Note how the recommended sample size in each case is inversely related to the minimum acceptable improvement. This makes sense, since the smaller the `mde`, the more sensitive your experiment is, and the more data you need to judge significance.

### Bayesian A/B Testing

We follow a mostly bayesian approach to A/B testing. While running any experiment, we calculate two parameters: (1) Probability of each variant being the best, and (2) whether the results are significant or not.

Below are calculations for each kind of experiment.

### Trend Experiment Calculations

Trend experiments capture count data. For example, if you want to measure the change in total count of clicks, you'd use this kind of experiment.

> We use monte carlo simulations to determine the probability of each variant being the best. Every variant can be simulated as a gamma distribution with shape parameter = trend count, and exposure = relative exposure for this variant.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We use Monte Carlo simulations to determine the probability of each variant being the best. Every variant can be simulated as a gamma distribution with shape parameter = trend count, and exposure = relative exposure for this variant.
```

---
title: Experimentation
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

<FeatureAvailability availablePlans={['standard', 'enterpriseCloud', 'startup', 'scale', 'enterprise']} />

Experimentation helps you test product changes to your app and find the optimal changes. You can test hypotheses about which product changes will lead to optimal results. You may have heard it before as A/B testing. Examples:

-   You want to test which copy or visual design has the highest conversion.
-   You want to test which flow leads to the highest number of purchases.
-   Another use case here?

> 🚧 **Experimentation is currently in beta** and support is limited to our [JavaScript](/docs/integrate/client/js#feature-flags) integration. If you have any feedback, please <a href="https://posthog.com/support" target="_blank">reach out</a>.

## How it works?

With Experimentation, you start with a hypothesis on how to improve your product (e.g. changing the flow, changing copy, changing visual styles, ...) and a goal (e.g. improve conversion, improve sign ups, ...).

-   Once you have those, you can create an Experiment which will have a control group and any number of experimentation variants (at least one).

> -   You can select which users will participate in the Experiment (e.g. paid users, users in a given country, or all users).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. Select which users will participate in the Experiment (e.g. paid users, users in a given country, or all users).
```

> -   Based on your user selection and your goal, we will estimate the number of users exposed and the number of days required for your Experiment to reach significant results.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

Based on your user selection and your goal, we will estimate the number of users exposed and the number of days required for your Experiment to reach significant results.
```

> -   You can tweak your settings to speed up the experiment or adjust user exposure (e.g. you may not want certain users exposed to your experiment).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

You can tweak your settings to speed up the experiment or adjust user exposure (e.g. you may not want certain users exposed to your experiment).
```

> -   The actual experiment and what your user sees is controlled in your own code (see below on [Creating an experiment](#creating-an-experiment)). You ask PostHog which group does this user belong to and then you show any relevant changes in your app or website. Because this is done in your code you can test any number of things, from changing copy in a button, to taking the user to a different page, or showing them a completely different experience.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

The actual experiment and what your user sees is controlled in your own code (see below on [Creating an experiment](#creating-an-experiment)). You ask PostHog which group does this user belong to and then you show any relevant changes in your app or website. Because this is done in your code you can test any number of things, from changing copy in a button, to taking the user to a different page, or showing them a completely different experience.
```

> -   Once your experiment is running, we'll automatically track your main conversion and let you know which variant leads to the best results. While the experiment is running, we'll also tell you the probability that any given variant is the winning variant.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

Once your experiment is running, we'll automatically track your main conversion and let you know which variant leads to the best results. While the experiment is running, we'll also tell you the probability that any given variant is the winning variant.
```

> -   To ensure your experiment does not introduce any regressions, you can also track secondary metrics. This is particularly useful if you're optimizing a metric that has a natural trade-off with another metric (e.g. you can maximize conversion by reducing your price but then your total revenue may be reduced).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

To ensure your experiment does not introduce any regressions, you can also track secondary metrics. This is particularly useful if you're optimizing a metric that has a natural trade-off with another metric (e.g. you can maximize conversion by reducing your price but then your total revenue may be reduced).
```

> -   Once your experiment is terminated, you can easily archive and share your results with other team members.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

Once your experiment is terminated, you can easily archive and share your results with other team members.
```

> ### Significant results

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### How to achieve significant results
```

> In order for your results and conclusions to be valid, any experiment must have a significant exposure. For instance, if you test a product change and only 1 user sees the change, you can't extrapolate from that single user that the change will be beneficial/detrimental for your entire user base. This is true for any experiment that uses the scientific method (e.g. this is also done when testing new drugs or vaccines).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In order for your results and conclusions to be valid, any experiment must have a significant exposure. For instance, if you test a product change and only one user sees the change, you can't extrapolate from that single user that the change will be beneficial/detrimental for your entire user base. This is true for any experiment that uses the scientific method (e.g. this is also done when testing new drugs or vaccines).
```

> PostHog computes this significance for you automatically and under the hood (you can read more about how we do this in our Advanced section below). We will let you know if your experiment has reached significant results or not. Once your experiment reaches significant results, it's safe to use those results to reach a conclusion and terminate the experiment.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
PostHog computes this significance for you automatically - we will let you know if your experiment has reached significant results or not. Once your experiment reaches significant results, it's safe to use those results to reach a conclusion and terminate the experiment. You can read more about how we do this in our 'Advanced' section below
```

### Experimentation vs. Feature Flags

> Experimentation and Feature Flags are different features because they serve different purposes. **Experimentation** is used to test changes to your product where you want to maximize a specific metric (ex. testing a new flow to maximize conversion rate). **Feature Flags** are used for phased roll-outs (e.g. a new experimental feature you want to make sure works correctly) or as a way to control feature access. More on Feature Flags [here](/docs/user-guides/feature-flags).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Experimentation and Feature Flags are different features because they serve different purposes. **Experimentation** is used to test changes to your product where you want to maximize a specific metric (eg. testing a new flow to maximize conversion rate). **Feature Flags** are used for phased roll-outs (e.g. a new experimental feature you want to make sure works correctly) or as a way to control feature access. Read our [Feature Flags user guide](/docs/user-guides/feature-flags) for more infomation on this.
```

Experimentation uses Feature Flags under the hood to handle user allocation to an experiment. You'll notice this when checking if a user is assigned to an experiment.

## Using Experimentation

### Creating an experiment

> TODO: Guide on how to create an experiment here.

Author: @neilkakkar @liyiy can you help with the TODOs here?

Reviewer 4: Can we just link out to this guide I wrote up for now until I can properly get things formatted with images and all onto the mdx file? 😬 https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DJmSY6ILZFmHhmRLTQ0L2oXGgFZCvGM4DF-zh92DIE8/edit?usp=sharing

Reviewer: Should be okay to take your time formatting, we don't have to publish it today.

Reviewer 4: oh ok then :D

### Running an experiment

TODO: Guide on how to run an experiment here.

### Terminating an experiment

You decide when to terminate an experiment. A banner in your experiment results page will let you know if it's safe to terminate an experiment or not (regardless of the original estimated running time). If you terminate the experiment before you see this banner, results will not be significant (see Advanced for more details on this) and any conclusions could be completely wrong.

> Once you have decided to terminate an experiment there are a few things to do.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once you have decided to terminate an experiment there are a few things to do:
```

-   [ ] Click on "Terminate the experiment" on the experiment page. This will ensure final results are kept.
-   [ ] We recommend you roll-out the winning variant to all your users. TODO: Explain here how to do this with PostHog.
-   [ ] Share results with relevant members of your team.
-   [ ] After the winning variant is rolled-out, it's good practice to remove the other variants from your code, and make the winning variant part of your core code (i.e. stop checking for the respective Feature Flag).
-   [ ] Document conclusions and findings in your PostHog experiment. This will help preserve context for team members who in the future need to understand what happened.

> -   [ ] Archive the experiment. This will terminate the Feature Flag so make sure your code no longer depends on the flag.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Archive the experiment. This will terminate the Feature Flag and ensure your code no longer depends on the flag.
```
